[1]
I'd like to tallk about "Ant colony optimization with multi-pheromones for solving constraint satisfaction problems."
I'm Takuya Masukane from Takushoku University.

[2]
First of all, let me give the summary of this work.
Our purpose is to propose new method to efficiently solve 
hard constraint satisfaction problems.
For the purpose, 
we employ an algorithm based on ant colony optimization with another pheromone.
As a result of this work, 
we achieved a good result around the phase transition region.

[3]
In our work, the target is Graph Coloring Problem.
It is one kind of the CSPs.
(1)
It is the problem to assign 3 colors to each vertex 
without the same coloring at both ends of each edge.
(2)
For example, these graphs have violation here.
Then, these coloring are solution.
Now, in this study, we define "constraint density," d.
It is the number of edges divided by the number of vertices.
For the prior work, it is reported 
that the instance which constraint density equals 
from two point three to two point four is hard to solve.

[4]
Our model is based on Ant Colony Optimization.
Ant Colony Optimization is the meta-heuristics 
imitating the ants' behavior to find their feed.
(1)
In real world, one ant drops pheromone on the path to their feed.
Then, other ants follow the pheromone 
and they can find the feed efficiently.
This is "pheromone communication."
If the path is effective, many ants use the path 
and amount of pheromone is increasing.
But if the path is not effective, pheromone evaporate 
and amount of pheromone is decreasing.

[5]
Ant system is the algorithm based on ACO.
(1)
Each ant constructs assignment probabilistically 
according to the amount of pheromone, tau, 
and the number of constraint violations, ita.
(2)
Then, pheromone is updated.
All pathes evaporate.
Then, according to the best assignment,
pheromone graph is updated.
(3)
(4)

[6]
Cunning ant system is the algorithm improving ant system.
The feature of this algorithm is borrowing assignments.
(1)
Cunning ant system has donor-ant and cunning-ant.
Donor-ant has a assignment at the previous cycle.
(2)
Before cunning-ants construct their assignment, 
donor-ants give cunning-ant a part of their assignments.
(3)
Then, the other variables are assigned according to pheromone and violation.
(4)
Then, at the next cycle, the cunning ants becomes the donor ants.
For this algorithm, high-quality part of assignment at the previous cycle is available.
Also, for borrowing, cAS reduces its search time.

[7]
However, these algorithm have a drawback.
When pheromone trail is updated, 
the amount of accumulation is retermined by this equation.
However, in early search, best assignment should have many violations,
and delta tau is small value.
Therefore, the search should take much time.
Then, we propose to provide several pheromone 
such as effective reference in eraly search.

[8]
Now, let me talk about our proposed model.
To achieve our purpose, in our model, we provide another pheromone.
This pheromone is updated according to the worst assignment in the set.
We call it "negative pheromone."
Assign probability is this.
When the amount of negative pheromone is increasing, 
the assignment is reraly chosen.

[9]
This is the algorithm.
The probability to assign value is different from naive.
And the negative pheromone is stored apart from usual pheromone.
Negative pheromone is updated according to the worst assignment.

[10]
To evaluate the effectiveness of our model, we make experiments.
We compare cAS and cASNEP.
The cASNEP is the algorithm based on ACO with cunning ants and negative pheromone.
These are the results.
First, about the percentage of solved instances, 
we perform in several constraint density patterns.
In all ceses, our proposed model overcome the naive cAS.
In particular, in phase transition region, rho equals 2.3 and 2.4, 
the effectiveness is remarkable.

[11]
Then, next result is about search cost.
We perform the experiment in d equals 2.3.
The horizontal line is the the number rank of the assignment construction.
The figure shows that almost solutions find by 25,000 construction.
And in cASNEP, the number of solution found by 25,000 construction is more than cAS.
Therefore, cASNEP should find solutions stably.

[12]
These results are difference in the situation.
Left figure shows the percentage of solved instances against the variation of rho.
In almost cases, the proposed model is superior.
Right figure shows the percentage of solved instances for larger instances.
The cAS has less progress.
However, the cASNEP grows gradually.

[13]
Finally, this is the conclusion.
We proposed a new model based on ant colony optimization to solve CSPs.
We provided another pheromone "negative pheromone."
Then, our proposed method is superior from the several points of view than naive method.
Our future work is to compare with other meta-heuristics,
and to apply to other types of CSPs.
Thank you.